README.md, before:

# diy_air_sensor
This is the project for the DIY Air Quality Sensor.  The code right now is, frankly, atrocious.  There are things I did in there that I don't care to remember, but they haunt me when I close my eyes.  This project started as a quick-and-hacky sensor project and morphed one-device-by-one-device into something akin to a coral colony, or maybe a cancer.  Anyway, whatever you do, DO NOT USE THIS CODE.  It will scare your children and sleep with your wife.

Bit-by-bit, I'm going to build some tests then start refactoring.  I'll remove this readme-of-shame when I have something resembling real code.

# TODO List:
* Move Arduino library build dependencies to git submodules
* Clang fuzz tests
* Clang tidy integration
* Clang static analysis


# Gas sensor info
 * MQ-2 - Smoke
 * MQ-3 - Alcohol Gas - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/8880
 * MQ-4 - Mehane (CNG) - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9404
 * MQ-5 - LPG, natural gas, town gas - https://tinyurl.com/y464ghh8
 * MQ-6 - LPG, iso-butane, propane - https://tinyurl.com/y4pnkfsl
 * MQ-7 - Carbon Monoxide (CO) - https://tinyurl.com/zr2uqtn
 * MQ-8 - Hydrogen - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10916
 * MQ-9 - Gas leaks - https://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Gas_Sensor-MQ9/
 * MQ-131 - Ozone - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17051
 * MQ-135 - Harmful Gasses https://components101.com/sensors/mq135-gas-sensor-for-air-quality
 * MQ-136 - Hydrogen Sulfide - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17052 (spare one in yellow box)
 * MQ-137 - Ammonia - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17053
 * Multi-channel gas sensor: https://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Multichannel_Gas_Sensor/

| item | Part Number | Quantity | link | Description               | Est Cost |
|------|-------------|----------|------|---------------------------|----------|
| 1    |  MQ5        |    1     |      |   LPG, City Gas Leak      |   $2     |
| 2    |  MQ7        |    1     |      |   Carbon Monoxide         |  $3.50   |
| 3    |  MQ131      |    1     |      |   Ozone                   |   $30    |
| 4    |  MQ9        |    1     |      |   Gas leaks               |   $2     |
| 5    |  MQ135      |    1     |      |   Poison Gasses (organic) |   $2     |
| 6    |GP2Y1010AU0F |    1     |      |   PM2.5 sensor            |  $18     |
| 7    |  Nano       |    2     |      |   Arduino Nano            |   $10     |
| 8    |   ---       |    1     |      |   F-F Breadboard cables   |   $6     |
| 9    |  ENCL       |    1     |      |   3d printed enclosure    |   $3     |
| 10   |  LK51-CA    |    1     |      |   4-line I2C LCD module   |   $12    |
| 11   |3-01-0038-5PCS|    1    |      |   SD Card module          |   $5    |

# 3D Printed Enclosure

See https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4669454.

# Calibration

Once I have calibrated my own system, I will post instructions here.

# Assembly instructions

I may (or may not) add assembly instructions eventually

Commit message:

Added directory descriptions to the readme file.

README.md, after:

# diy_air_sensor
This is the project for the DIY Air Quality Sensor.  The code right now is, frankly, atrocious.  There are things I did in there that I don't care to remember, but they haunt me when I close my eyes.  This project started as a quick-and-hacky sensor project and morphed one-device-by-one-device into something akin to a coral colony, or maybe a cancer.  Anyway, whatever you do, DO NOT USE THIS CODE.  It will scare your children and sleep with your wife.

Bit-by-bit, I'm going to build some tests then start refactoring.  I'll remove this readme-of-shame when I have something resembling real code.

# TODO List:
* Move Arduino library build dependencies to git submodules
* Clang fuzz tests
* Clang tidy integration
* Clang static analysis

# Code Structure
## diy_air_sensor
This top-level directory is can be used with the Arduino IDE to build diy_air_sensor.ino. The project builds files in the src and include directories.  The CMakeLists.txt in this directory can also be used to cross-compile arduino project from the commandline.  You will find the .gitignore, .travis.yml, and all other files related to integrating with external tools (like coveralls) at this level.

This also contains run_lint.bash, which will run the linter on all relevant files.  If you check in un-linted files, travis will yell at you.

### src
Contains the source code for the diy_air_sensor project.  Look at DiyAirSensor.hh / .cpp to find the top-level init and loop logic.

### include
Contains headers shared between projects.

### log_file_sender
This is the second Arduino project and is built separately from the diy_air_sensor project.  diy_air_sensor sends data via a serial port to the log_file sender, which writes the data to a file on an SD card.  We do this because the ATMega328 does not have enough RAM to run the SD stack and anything else at the same time.

### test
This directory contains test files.  Tests build on Linux or Mac platforms and cover both diy_air_sensor and log_file_sender projects.  They also produce code coverage reports.  Run the ./build.sh file in this directory to build and run the tests.


# Gas sensor info
 * MQ-2 - Smoke
 * MQ-3 - Alcohol Gas - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/8880
 * MQ-4 - Mehane (CNG) - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9404
 * MQ-5 - LPG, natural gas, town gas - https://tinyurl.com/y464ghh8
 * MQ-6 - LPG, iso-butane, propane - https://tinyurl.com/y4pnkfsl
 * MQ-7 - Carbon Monoxide (CO) - https://tinyurl.com/zr2uqtn
 * MQ-8 - Hydrogen - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10916
 * MQ-9 - Gas leaks - https://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Gas_Sensor-MQ9/
 * MQ-131 - Ozone - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17051
 * MQ-135 - Harmful Gasses https://components101.com/sensors/mq135-gas-sensor-for-air-quality
 * MQ-136 - Hydrogen Sulfide - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17052 (spare one in yellow box)
 * MQ-137 - Ammonia - https://www.sparkfun.com/products/17053
 * Multi-channel gas sensor: https://wiki.seeedstudio.com/Grove-Multichannel_Gas_Sensor/

| item | Part Number | Quantity | link | Description               | Est Cost |
|------|-------------|----------|------|---------------------------|----------|
| 1    |  MQ5        |    1     |      |   LPG, City Gas Leak      |   $2     |
| 2    |  MQ7        |    1     |      |   Carbon Monoxide         |  $3.50   |
| 3    |  MQ131      |    1     |      |   Ozone                   |   $30    |
| 4    |  MQ9        |    1     |      |   Gas leaks               |   $2     |
| 5    |  MQ135      |    1     |      |   Poison Gasses (organic) |   $2     |
| 6    |GP2Y1010AU0F |    1     |      |   PM2.5 sensor            |  $18     |
| 7    |  Nano       |    2     |      |   Arduino Nano            |   $10     |
| 8    |   ---       |    1     |      |   F-F Breadboard cables   |   $6     |
| 9    |  ENCL       |    1     |      |   3d printed enclosure    |   $3     |
| 10   |  LK51-CA    |    1     |      |   4-line I2C LCD module   |   $12    |
| 11   |3-01-0038-5PCS|    1    |      |   SD Card module          |   $5    |

# 3D Printed Enclosure

See https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:4669454.

# Calibration

Once I have calibrated my own system, I will post instructions here.

# Assembly instructions

I may (or may not) add assembly instructions eventually
